We have a device here called the howitzer cart and if I release the spring
it launches the ball straight up in the air and gets caught in this cup right here.
Can also take this howitzer cart and push it across this track.
Moving in constant velocity.
Due to both in conjunction,
Lets watch the motion of the ball as it leaves the howitzer cart
and see if it lands back in the howitzer cart.
Before the ball is released from the howitzer cart...
They both have the same velocity in the x direction
They velocity is independent of the x direction velocity.
Hence it doesn't matter how high the ball goes, it still must land back in this cart.
In this our system consists of the same howitzer cart, the same ball being released.
However the howitzer cart will now be pulled by a weight
so it will be on a constant acceleration.
Lets see what happens.
As we can see,
although the ball and the howitzer cart have the same velocity in the x direction when the ball is released.
The howitzer cart is undergoing an acceleration.
Therefore the ball, which doesn't accelerate, once it leaves the howitzer cart
has to land behind the accelerating howitzer cart.
In this demonstration we are going to release the howitzer cart on an incline.
The ball will be released the same as before.
Lets see if it can still catch the ball in the cup.
In releasing the ball in the incline the howitzer cart has an acceleration in the x direction.
However the ball also has an acceleration now in the x direction.
and therefore the howitzer cart will catch the ball every time no matter what the incline is.